1. When you start feeling angry, try deep breathing, positive self-talk, or stopping your
    angry thoughts. Breathe deeply from your diaphragm. Slowly repeat a calm word or
    phrase such as "relax" or "take it easy." Repeat it to yourself while breathing
    deeply until the anger subsides.

2. Although expressing anger is better than keeping it in, there’s a right way to do it. Try to
    express yourself clearly and calmly. Angry outbursts are stressful to your nervous and
    cardiovascular systems and can make health problems worse.

3. Consider the value of physical activity like regular exercise as a way to both improve
    your mood and release tension and anger.

4. Avoid using recreational drugs and drinking too much alcohol, which can make you less
    able to handle frustration. Alcohol can also loosen your inhibitions so that you say
    or do something your normally wouldn’t.

5. Get support from others. Talk through your feelings and try to work on changing your
    behaviors.

6. If you have trouble realizing when you are having angry thoughts, keep a written log of
    when you feel angry.

7. Try to gain a different perspective by putting yourself in another's place.

8. Learn how to laugh at yourself and see humor in situations.

9. Practice good listening skills. Listening can help improve communication and can build
    trusting feelings between people. This trust can help you deal with potentially hostile
    emotions. A useful communication exercise is to say to someone, “Let me make sure I
    understand what you’re saying” and then restate back to them what you perceive as their
    main message or point of view. Often, this approach helps to clarify misunderstandings
    that can lead to frustrations, and help identify issues on which you may ultimately
    “agree to disagree” without turning into a fight.

10. Learn to assert yourself, expressing your feelings calmly and directly without becoming
    defensive, hostile, or emotionally charged. Read self-help books or seek help from a
    professional therapist to learn how to use assertiveness and anger management skills.