Tell yourself something positive.
    Research shows that how you think about yourself can have a powerful effect on how you
    feel. When we perceive our self and our life negatively, we can end up viewing
    experiences in a way that confirms that notion. Instead, practice using words that
    promote feelings of self-worth and personal power. For example, instead of saying,
    "I'm such a loser. I won't get the job because I tanked in the interview," try, "I
    didn't do as well in the interview as I would have liked, but that doesn't mean I'm
    not going to get the job."

Write down something you are grateful for.
    Gratitude has been clearly linked with improved well-being and mental health, as well as
    happiness. The best-researched method to increase feelings of gratitude is to keep a
    gratitude journal or write a daily gratitude list. Generally contemplating gratitude is
    also effective, but you need to get regular practice to experience long-term benefit.
    Find something to be grateful for, let it fill your heart, and bask in that feeling.

Focus on one thing (in the moment).
    Being mindful of the present moment allows us to let go of negative or difficult emotions
    from past experiences that weigh us down. Start by bringing awareness to routine
    activities, such as taking a shower, eating lunch, or walking home. Paying attention to
    the physical sensations, sounds, smells, or tastes of these experiences helps you focus.
    When your mind wanders, just bring it back to what you are doing.

Exercise.
    Your body releases stress-relieving and mood-boosting endorphins before and after you
    work out, which is why exercise is a powerful antidote to stress, anxiety, and
    depression. Look for small ways to add activity to your day, like taking the stairs
    instead of the elevator or going on a short walk. To get the most benefit, aim for at
    least 30 minutes of exercise daily, and try to do it outdoors. Exposure to sunlight
    helps your body produce vitamin D, which increases your level of serotonin in the
    brain. Plus, time in nature is a proven stress reducer.

Eat a good meal.
    What you eat nourishes your whole body, including your brain. Carbohydrates (in
    moderate amounts) increase serotonin, a chemical that has been shown to have a
    calming effect on your mood. Protein-rich foods increase norepinephrine, dopamine,
    and tyrosine, which help keep you alert. And vegetables and fruits are loaded with
    nutrients that feed every cell of your body, including those that affect mood-
    regulating brain chemicals. Include foods with Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids
    (found in fish, nuts, and flaxseed.) Research shows that these nutrients can
    improve mood and restore structural integrity to the brain cells necessary for
    cognitive function.

Open up to someone.
    Knowing you are valued by others is important for helping you think more positively.
    Plus, being more trusting can increase your emotional well-being because as you get
    better at finding the positive aspects in other people, you become better at
    recognizing your own.

Do something for someone else.
    Research shows that being helpful to others has a beneficial effect on how you feel about
    yourself. Being helpful and kind—and valued for what you do—is a great way to build
    self-esteem. The meaning you find in helping others will enrich and expand your life.

Take a break.
    In those moments when it all seems like too much, step away, and do anything but
    whatever was stressing you out until you feel a little better. Sometimes the best
    thing to do is a simple breathing exercise: Close your eyes and take 10 deep
    breaths. For each one, count to four as you inhale, hold it for a count of four,
    and then exhale for another four. This works wonders almost immediately.

Go to bed on time.
    A large body of research has shown that sleep deprivation has a significant negative
    effect on your mood. Try to go to bed at a regular time each day, and practice good
    habits to get better sleep. These include shutting down screens for at least an hour
    before bed, using your bed only for sleep or relaxing activities, and restricting
    caffeinated drinks for the morning.