Be yourself
    You must be yourself. This means asking for what you want, setting boundaries, having
    your own beliefs and opinions, standing up for your values, wearing the clothes you
    want to wear, eating the food you want to eat, saying the things you want to say, and
    in a hundred other ways being you and not somebody small or false.

Invent yourself
    You come with attributes, capacities and proclivities and you are molded in a certain
    environment. But at some point you must say, “Okay, this is what is original to me
    and this is how I have been formed but now who do I want to be?” You reduce your
    emotional distress by deciding to become a person who will experience less emotional
    distress: a calmer person, a less critical person, a less egoistic person, a more
    productive person, a less self-abusive person, and so on.

Love and be loved
    Part of our nature requires solitude, alone time, and a substantial rugged individualism.
    But this isn’t the whole story of our nature. We feel happier, warmer and better, live
    longer, and experience life as more meaningful if we love and let ourselves be loved. We
    must be individuals (see tips 1 and 2) but we must also relate. To do both, to both be
    ourselves and relate, requires that we acknowledge the reality of others, include others
    in our plans, not only speak but listen, and makes ourselves fit by eliminating our more
    egregious faults and by growing up.

Get a grip on your mind
    Nothing causes more emotional distress than the thoughts we think. We must do a better
    job than we usually do of identifying the thoughts that don’t serve us, disputing them
    and demanding that they go away, and substituting more useful thoughts. Thinking
    thoughts that do not serve you is the equivalent of serving yourself up emotional
    distress. Only you can get a grip on your own mind; if you won’t do that work, you will
    live in distress.

Forget the past
    We are not so completely in control of our being that we can prevent past sore points
    from returning. They have a way of pestering us as anxious sweats, nightmares, sudden
    sadness, and waves of anger or defeat. But we can nevertheless try to exorcise the past
    by not playing along with our human tendency to wallow there. We must tell ourselves to
    move on and mean it. If you have a secret attachment to misery, you will feel miserable.
    As best you can, imperfectly but with real energy, let go of the past and forget the
    past.

Flip the anxiety switch off
    Rampant anxiety ruins our equilibrium, colors our mood, and makes all the already hard
    tasks of living that much harder. There are many anxiety management strategies you
    might want to try—breathing techniques, cognitive techniques, relaxation techniques,
    and so on—but what will make all the difference is if you can locate that “inner switch”
    that controls your anxious nature and, deciding that you prefer to live more calmly,
    flip it to the off position. With one gesture you announce that you will no longer
    over-dramatize, that you will no longer catastrophize, that you will no longer live a
    fearful life or create unnecessary anxiety for yourself.

Make meaning
    Meaning is nothing more arcane than a certain sort of subjective psychological
    experience. We can have much more meaning in our life if we stop looking for it,
    as if it were lost or as if someone else knew more about it than we did, and realize
    that it is in our power to influence meaning and even make it. By making daily
    meaning investments and by seizing daily meaning opportunities we hold meaning crises
    at bay and experience life as meaningful. Meaning problems produce severe emotional
    distress and learning the art of value-based meaning-making dramatically reduces that
    distress.

Let meaning trump mood
    You can decide that the meaning you make is more important to you than the mood you
    find yourself in. Rather than saying “I’m blue today” you instead say, “I have my
    business to build” or “I have my novel to write.” You start each day by announcing
    to yourself exactly how you intend to make meaning on that day, how you intend to
    deal with routine chores and tasks, how you intend to relax—how, in short, you mean
    to spend your day—and you consider all of that, the rich and the mundane alike, as
    the project of your life, one that you are living with grace and in good spirits.
    You reduce your emotional distress by checking in more on your intentions and less
    on your mood.

Upgrade your personality
    You may not be the person you would like to be. You may be angrier than you would like
    to be, more impulsive, more scattered, more self-sabotaging, more undisciplined, more
    frightened. If so, you require a personality upgrade, which of course only you can supply.
    You choose a feature of your personality you would like to upgrade and then you ask
    yourself, what thoughts align with this intention and what actions align with this
    intention? Then you think the appropriate thoughts and take the necessary action. In this
    way you become the person capable of and equal to reducing your emotional distress.

Deal with circumstances
    Would you experience more distress sunning yourself at the beach or facing a long jail
    sentence? Circumstances matter. Our economic circumstances matter; our relationships
    matter; our work conditions matter; our health matters; whether our nation is at peace
    or occupied by invaders matters. Many circumstances are completely out of our control
    and many are within our control. We can change jobs or careers, we can divorce, we
    can reduce our calorie intake, we can stand up or keep quiet, we can do exactly as much
    as we can do to improve our circumstances. As a result of those improvements, we feel
    emotionally better. Emotional healing requires that you take real action in the real
    world.