Listen to music
    If you're feeling overwhelmed by a stressful situation, try taking a break and listening to
    relaxing music. Playing calm music has a positive effect on the brain and body, can lower
    blood pressure, and reduce cortisol, a hormone linked to stress.

Call a friend
    When you’re feeling stressed, take a break to call a friend and talk about your problems.
    Good relationships with friends and loved ones are important to any healthy lifestyle,
    and they’re especially important when you're under a lot of stress. A reassuring voice,
    even for a minute, can put everything in perspective.

Talk yourself through it
    Sometimes calling a friend is not an option. If this is the case, talking calmly to yourself
    can be the next best thing. Don’t worry about seeming crazy — just tell yourself why
    you're stressed out, what you have to do to complete the task at hand, and most
    importantly, that everything will be okay.

Eat right
    Stress levels and a proper diet are closely related. When we’re overwhelmed, we
    often forget to eat well and resort to using sugary, fatty snack foods as a pick
    -me-up. Try to avoid sugary snacks and plan ahead. Fruits and vegetables are
    always good, and fish with high levels of omega-3 fatty acids have been shown
    to reduce the symptoms of stress. A tuna sandwich really is brain food.

Laugh it off
    Laughter releases endorphins that improve mood and decrease levels of the stress
    -causing hormones cortisol and adrenaline. Laughing tricks your nervous system
    into making you happy. Our suggestion: watch some classic Monty Python skits like
    “The Ministry of Silly Walks.” Those Brits are sohilarious, you’ll soon be cracking up,
    rather than cracking up.

Drink tea
    A large dose of caffeine causes a short-term spike in blood pressure. It may also cause
    your hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis to go into overdrive. Instead of coffee or
    energy drinks, try green tea. It has less than half the caffeine of coffee and contains
    healthy antioxidants, as well as heanine, an amino acid that has a calming effect on the
    nervous system.

Be mindful
    Most of the tips we’ve suggested provide immediate relief, but there are also many
    lifestyle changes that can be more effective in the long run. The concept of
    “mindfulness” is a large part of meditative and somatic approaches to mental health,
    and has become popular in modern psychotherapy. From yoga and tai chi to meditation
    and Pilates, these systems of mindfulness incorporate physical and mental exercises
    that prevent stress from becoming a problem. Try joining a class.

Exercise (even for a minute)
    Exercise doesn't necessarily mean power lifting at the gym or training for a marathon. A
    short walk around the office or simply standing up to stretch during a break at work can
    offer immediate relief in a stressful situation. Getting your blood moving releases
    endorphins and can improve your mood almost instantaneously.

Sleep better
    Everyone knows stress can cause you to lose sleep. Unfortunately, lack of sleep is also a
    key cause of stress. This vicious cycle causes the brain and body to get out of whack and
    only gets worse with time. Make sure to get the doctor-recommended seven to eight hours
    of sleep. Turn the TV off earlier, dim the lights, and give yourself time to relax before
    going to bed. It may be the most effective stress buster on our list.

Breathe easy
    The advice “take a deep breath” may seem like a cliché, but it holds true when it comes
    to stress. For centuries, Buddhist monkshave been conscious of deliberate breathing
    during meditation. For an easy three-to five-minute exercise, sit up in your chair with
    your feet flat on the floor and hands on top of your knees. Breathe in and out slowly and
    deeply, concentrating on your lungs as they expand fully in your chest. While shallow
    breathing causes stress, deep breathing oxygenates your blood, helps center your body,
    and clears your mind.